---
layout: music
year: 2015
title: "Watch"
description: "Alzheimer's collaboration with performance poet Leah Thorn"
image: leah-1.jpg
category: "music"
area: art
genre: [soundtrack]
artist: [Leah Thorn]
location: [UK]
tags: [poetry, soundtrack, UK, Leah Thorn]
vimeo: 122550624
director: Ewan Golder
people: [Moshikop (composer/production/mix), Meg Hamilton (violin), Susie Evans (clarinet), Jim Marcovitch (accordion)]
writer: Leah Thorn
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Leah's intensely personal radio portrait of her father's Alzheimers was one of the most moving projects I've been involved in, and even though the music was written over a short period in 2004, Leah's words continue to resonate with me to this day.

From the original radio play, 'Watch' was reborn as a film, and was nominated for an <a href="http://www.ahrc.ac.uk/newsevents/news/rifaceremony/">AHRC Inspiration Award – Best film inspired by arts and humanities research</a> in 2015.

<h3>Blurb</h3>
A unique and creative collaboration between spoken word poet Leah Thorn and filmmaker Ewan Golder, ‘watch’ uses Super 8 film, poetry, storytelling and photography to reveal the centrality of memory to identity and the impact of dementia on a father/daughter relationship.

With a haunting original soundscape by Lemez Lovas and Moshik Kop, ‘watch’ is a deeply personal and moving film exploring loss, vulnerability, survival and memorialisation.
The production was made possible by a Leverhulme Trust Artist Residency in the Kent Academic Primary Care Unit at the University of Kent and the England Centre for Practice Development at Canterbury Christ Church University. 


<h3>About Leah</h3>
{% include video id="yySZ3p4XnDY" text="Leah at a TedX event." %}
Leah is a spoken word poet, who works in collaboration with film-makers, dancers and musicians. At the heart of her poetry is the autobiographical exploration of identity and of issues of liberation. She is published through performance, film and anthologies and magazines in England and the United States.

Leah is currently Leverhulme Trust artist-in-residence in the University of Kent Academic Primary Care Unit and the England Centre for Practice Development at Canterbury Christ Church University. During the residency, Leah will use poetry to explore the life experiences of women in their 60’s.

You can find out more about Leah on her site, <a href="http://www.leahthorn.com">here</a>.



