---
layout: music
year: 2012
title: "The Latke Who Couldn't Stop Screaming"
description: "A scrumptious children's play, with Tall Stories"
image: "latke1-patrickbaldwin.jpg"
category: "music"
area: theatre
genre: [kids, theatre]
artist: [Tall Stories / The Latke Who Wouldn't Stop Screaming]
tags: [kids, theatre, Tall Stories]
vimeo: 58200572
venue: Roundhouse
director: Olivia Jacobs
producer: Josephine Burton (Yad Arts)
writer: Lemony Snicket (adapted by the cast)
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Daniel Handler - aka Lemony Snicket - is one of those children's writers you wish you were. I mean, really. His stories are dark, impishly funny and always done with style. 

And so I was delighted to be asked to collaborate with the wonderful Tall Stories theatre company to make a devised theatre piece by producer Josephine at Yad Arts. I was part of a composition duo at the time with Yaniv Fridel, and we took on our usual division of duties: he took care of instrumental music and sound design while I worked on the songs.


///


Judi Herman talks to the team behind The Latke Who Couldn’t Stop Screaming, the UK's first stage adaptation from the rich and strange world of American author Lemony Snicket.

latke-2The story begins in a tiny snowy village, where a Hanukkah Latke, a fried potato pancake, is born screaming (as anyone would if they were thrown into a pan of boiling oil). The Latke leaps from the boiling pan and races through the wintery village, encountering several different kinds of Christmas decorations, deep in the throes of festive preparations... It's a story about "Being yourself and appreciating others".

Tall Stories, who with YaD Arts is presenting this production (commissioned by the Roundhouse and the Jewish Community Centre for London), is the hugely successful Theatre Company specialising in productions for family audiences founded by Olivia Jacobs and Toby Mitchell, whose unique physical and musical style have brought Julia Donaldson’s beloved Gruffalo and many other much loved stories to the stage. Olivia and "Latke’s" co-director Tim Hibberd explain how, with excerpts from the show the company recorded with Judi especially for JR OutLoud. And Josephine Burton, director of Yad Arts, explains how the story begins...

///


press

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/theatre/theatre-reviews/9746102/The-Latke-Who-Couldnt-Stop-Screaming-The-Roundhouse-review.html

http://www.timeout.com/london/theatre/the-latke-who-couldnt-stop-screaming

http://www.jewishrenaissance.org.uk/latke.html

Reviews
“A superb ensemble cast storms through this tale of loneliness and the search for belonging with much humour and pizazz… this is a wonderfully inventive take on the usual seasonal fare.” Time Out – 4 STARS

“This adaptation is deliciously directed by Olivia Jacobs and Tim Hibberd. The moral of this tale is very sweetly delivered by the fabulous five-strong cast. ….they create an air of adorable silliness, a good-natured knowingness that tips delicately into pastiche.” The Telegraph – 4 STARS 

“A fun, energetic production with plenty of visual gags and songs that had the children dancing in their seats.” Financial Times

“This brilliant adaptation is a refreshing alternative to the slew of Christmas pantomimes – well worth going to see.” A Younger Theatre

“Olivia Jacob’s YaD Arts production…is a gem of a children’s show” Jewish Chronicle – 5 STARS

“Delightfully absurd take on the story” One Stop Arts – 4 STARS

“one of the season’s most imaginative (and daft) productions” LondonTown http://t.co/3SEVZNj0