A new experience.
two experiences to talk about:

1) Bombay Jayashri

2) This feeling of stillness, calm, openness

I have just finished mantra and carnatic practice. I have a new rhythm, singing in the morning, and mantra then singing again in the pooja room at Guru ji's place in the evening. This evening, an extraordinary thing happened. I finished my mantra and was half way through my practice when guruji walks in. "Stay there, don't leave," he says, and starts his quiet prayer ritual. Out of respect, I started to sing quietly. I practised my geetams, looked at some old pieces, all the time singing barely audibly. My voice was rich, bouncing off the reverberant walls, the high harmonics fizzing over his low murmuring. 

He finished, and I walked out after him into the still, night air. Immediately I felt light, at peace, serene. The air was buzzing with high frequencies. I could hear ech cricket, each cicada. The night air was soft, warm. I remembered what Aurelio said about his mentor asking if he could hear the singing of the clouds. Tonight I think I can hear them too.

My feeling is one of slowness, as if time itself has slowed down. Each second, I have the time to notice everything around me. I feel bliss, but in a different sense to the electricity I felt after singing with Shubha. This time it is not charged, but totally still, as if my mind is empty to the point of perfection. I feel perfect, I can say, exactly as I should be, sensitive to everything around, every sound and movement. I escaped bedtime with the family to write, riding on the scooter to Kuliyapalam village to an open cafe, running away lest daily mundanity disturb this mood. I think I needn't have worried. It is so strong, this calm. I could hear the high noises of bats and insects above the roar of the scooter engine. In my perfect calm, I felt as though I could even see better. Usually at night on the scooter, I am squinting, aware that I am riding without my glasses, trying to make out the shapes in the gloom. Not tonight. Tonight, everything was clear: my focus was not different, but I could see deeper in the gloom around each of the oncoming bikes and cars. It was as if my depth of vision was better, along with my hearing. It feels as though my entire being is clearer, more observant, still inside so as to observe better the world outside. It truly is a blissful experience. I feel nourished in my body by this richness of frequencies around me. I have the clarity of thought, of mind, that only comes with authentic feeling, with being reverberant, with knowing that inside your thoughts have the space to bounce and rebound, and gather speed without falling silent or colliding with another. My thoughts are independent of one another, without interruption from the vital mind, from daily noise. Each thought has room, is protected. It truly is an expansive sensation, as if my mind has gone beyond the limits of my brain to occupy a bigger space, less cramped, with more light. This is perhaps my first experience of spiritual peace. I have had highs before, feelings of warmth and love, but never serenity, blissful peace.

I am listening to music as I write this, pushing up all the high and high-mid frequencies as if I can appreciate them fully for the first time. I have never listened to music with this type of curve before. Even with my headphones on, listening to L Subramaniam as I write this, the crickets are buzzing so loud that I thought it was an electrical hum. I can hear the crickets through my headphones. My ears are truly awake in a way that I never thought possible.

What is responsible for this feeling, and can I replicate it? I was relaxed after the mantra, calm before I started my singing practice. As I sang the geetams, it occurred to me that they are prayers, and singing them with a guru in a prayer room felt like the most perfect singing conditions one could ever ask for. I wonder too if it was the softness of the singing, in a room with such lush reverberant acoustics. As I sang, so quietly as to be barely singing at all, I was forced to listen out for my voice. As it bounced off the walls, it sounded beautiful with the long reverberation. This combination of listening and beauty gave me courage to continue, getting even quieter. I was concentrated in the act of being, giving life to a song and being nourished by it in the stillness. 

I feel wide awake, one hundred per cent alert. I have just reread my notes over the past fortnight, my tumultuous letters of love and despair. These have made me tired again, sad at the state of uncertainty we find ourselves in. D responded to my letter in a most unexpected way. She agreed with almost everything I said, begged my forgiveness, that I not give up on her, on us. She promised to seek out a sound healing session with Aurelio, which I understood after my course is the perfect form of treatment for her, for people for whom psychotherapy is too intimate, too dangerous, their traumas too ingrained and deep. But she has not booked it yet, four days after we spoke about it, after she promised to act and think differently. It is true that she seems calmer now, and together we seem kinder, knowing that we are a work in progress, going towards the same goal. She has stopped complaining about every small thing, and is spending more time drawing plants, which she has a real talent for. She seems to have a hunger for learning that is new too. So the outlook is tentatively positive. But I do not think she will book a session with Aurelio, she will not seek to address the deep causes. She is too afraid. My fear is that if she does not, she will come back to the place where she was only last week, where the only important thing is that everything looks OK, even when she is desperately fragile and vulnerable inside. If this does happen, I will try again, and she will assure me she will act again, and again some good times will come before the darkness sets in again.

I give myself three times, three repetitions of this cycle before I think again. I do not want her to seek help for my sake, or even for our sake, but for her own.

I thought about love again, reading my letter to my mother and my thoughts about the different types of love. I wrote that I feel sorry for someone who has neither love for her mother, nor faith. Daniela does not have these, which is why Alma, her friend Olja and I am everything to her. This is why she talks about her friend Olja so much, to the extent that it almost feels that her absence is the prime cause of D's dissatisfaction with being here with me.

Apart from Alma, me and Olja, she has noone. She has a large family, but she is not close to them. Except for the three of us, nobody really loves her. And now that my own love is being tested - although it will never be broken as long as I live - I worry that if we were to break up, she would suffocate Alma to the point that she too may one day reject her. I pray that this will never happen. But I must be generous to her, being one of the only pillars upon which her existence depends.









