I want her to be a goddess. I want that she is a goddess. The woman that I am with, she is a goddess. I will express my love to her every day through worship. Every interaction we have, it gives the possibility of worship. Every time I give of myself to her, every time I give her an idea, a spark of creativity, that is me worshipping her with my love.

But what happens to the devotee when your goddess rejects your worship? The devotee becomes doubtful. Worship is an act of give and take - I give of myself to you, and you give to me peace, insight, love, serenity. Even in times of trouble, especially in times of trouble, you must find a way to speak to your goddess, to allow yourself to give of yourself to her.

My goddess does not believe that she is a goddess. Each prayer I offer her, she tosses it aside in doubt and insecurity. Soon I must stop offering her prayers. If I believe that she is a goddess, and she refuses to be one, what then for my faith? How then can my faith continue to exist? Must I change it to be that of a non-believer? Must I believe in nothing, as she does?

I cannot do that, I do not want to do that. I have been searching for my faith, and I understand that this is it - my faith is beauty in the feminine form - woman. I have been brought up by women, I have loved women since I can remember, all my most formative experiences have been with women. I do not really understand men, their jealousies and insecurities and endless posturing. Women are the real power, that has been clear to me since I was a child. As a teenager, I discovered their power for myself, and I have never doubted for one second that they are everything to me, that the closer I myself can come to being a woman, the more of a man I will be.

If a goddess does not believe she is one, if she rejects worship, if she does not have faith in herself, there can be no worship. And if worship is at the heart of this beautiful symbiotic relationship between devotee and goddess, then this lack of faith undermines all. I worship her because in that exchange, I myself become a god. If she is not a goddess, then I am not a God. And if I am not to die, then I must alow myself to be one. I must find a goddess who agrees to be worshipped. 

I will always worship her in a way, despite her problems. She is the one who gave me so much, who supported me when I was weak, but never knew how to worship herself. She never knew her own inner strength, her own beauty, her own divinity. With a goddess, you can laugh, you can cry, you can tell her everything. And she will help you to see into yourself.

When you meet another goddess, you know that you have met her. How? She helps you to see into yourself. When you meet her, the shock of truly seeing yourself for the first time can be overwhelming. 

I pray that she too will meet another who shows her her true self. Her beauty, her divinity, her capacity for love. At the moment, she can only worship a child, because the child worships her. She does not feel that I worship her, because she does not consider herself worthy of another's worship. Our child has no choice but to worship her, because to the child, her mother is the entire universe. But she is not only a mother, she is a woman. She tells me that I do not make her feel like a woman. It is not up to me to make her feel like a woman - she must know it. The goddess knows that she is born as a goddess. Every woman is born as a goddess. If only they could see it as I do.

The stories that she tells our child at nightime are a mantra. She repeats them night after night in the same voice, our child wants always the same stories, the warmth and familiarity and repetition embrace her as she falls asleep. What mantras do we tell each other?

There are two types of mantra, the spoken and the silent. We are unable to get past the spoken ones, to understand the silence. No matter how much I speak to her the mantra of love, both vocally and silenty, she hears something else. Each mantra that I give her, she sees in it her own deficiency. If I tell her I love her, she doubts. If I tell her she has doubt, she freezes.

How can a worshipper unleash the divinity inside a goddess if the goddess herself rejects it? Is it undoubtedly a work of a lifetime, if it is even possible in the first place. Should I pour my entire life and creative energy into hoping that one day she will understand? Or are her fears so deep that they are beyond my reach? 

Our child worships me too. It is true that I have had to work for her ardour, it was not clear to me when she born that I could ever be a God to her. That was just my ego, resentful of the intimacy that I saw her share with her Mother, their overwhelming chain of mutual dependency. 

I do not want to depend on my goddess, I want to us both to be gods when we are together. If a god and goddess come together, they can create worlds, entire universes at their command. This is the power of love. 

We are all universes of latent power and possibility. For it to rise, it must be unleashed in syncronicity, in perfect symbiosis. One day a goddess will unleash me too, as I will her. 

And we will worship each other day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute. She will leave the house knowing that she is a goddess, and she will be reminded of it the moment she steps through the door. Our home will be her temple, our lovemaking her pooja. The smell of food simmering on the stove will be our agarpati, the fruit and flowers on the kitchen table our offering.

We will give each other strength to express all emotions, knowing that all emotions are a true expression of our self, and through our creative power, she will know without any shadow of a doubt that she is divinity itself. I will give her that strength and power to carry throughout her life, to overcome any obstacle she encounters, to have faith when she is challenged.

Because if you know you are a god, you are unshakeable, unstoppable, complete.

A person who feels complete knows that they are blessed: the glass is always full. I seek that completion through union with my goddess.

I have always believed that each person creates their own reality, day by day, through each interaction with another. That good will and understanding towards others can create beauty where another may see ugliness. I see now that the real power to create comes in unison with another.
Then we will not create realities, but universes of our own choosing.

Aware of the truth of beauty, we will seek it out in everything we do. We will not be able to deny it's truth once we have seen it. Once you have felt its touch, you cannot continue in darkness. What we have touched, it will be there with us forever, however we negotiate our paths, however we deal with our fears about our current situations. For once beauty has been glimpsed, the light is too strong to resist. I must go down this path towards it. My entire life depends on it.





















