I recited the Bala mantra again this morning, the fourth time so far. Each time it changes, the act of reciting. Sometimes lows, sometimes highs, this morning a pure warmth, a pure love.

I faced the female divinity, the divine Mother.

I thought about my own mother, and how much I love her. I want to write a letter to her to tell her. Here it is:

Dear Mum,

I love you so much. I know that I am bad at telling you this, and bad at keeping you up to date with my life. Knowing that I have your support and your unconditional love is everything to me, I realise that now. Without that, I would be a totally different person - afraid, fixed, closed.

With your love and warmth behind me at all times, I have the confidence that I can go to the moon if I wish. I feel that I can remake the universe to my own desire, starting with those around me. I feel as though I have boundless love to give to others who are not so fortunate as I am. I feel that I can be their rock, as you were to me. You have given me the gift of strength, the gift of love, of self-belief. You are a goddess.

I have been blessed with many wonderful experiences here, alongside the difficult experiences of my married life. Now that Alma and Daniela have been gone for ten days, I have had space and time to indulge in activities that are helping me to be centred, to be grateful for what I have.

I want to tell you everything: four days ago I fell in love with another woman. Or rather, I didn't fall in love with her, but I remembered what love could be. You have no need to worry for me, I am not about to do anything rash - rather, it has triggered in me a series of thoughts about what love is, about what it is to be a parent, what it is to be a child. And today it struck me that you are everything to me. I do not mean this in a needy way, in a sad way, but a purely positive one. 

I know that you suffered as a child, that because of that, sometimes you have found yourself wanting for strength.
But now that I am in my own troubled marriage, I truly appreciate the sacrifices you made for me, for our family. You took what little strength you had and you gave it to us. You turned the other cheek when you received no strength in your own marriage, and you continued to give to us until you could give no more. I know that you and Dad could have broken up earlier. Please never think that you made a mistake to wait for so long. Please know that your sacrifice has been worth it, that thanks to you I have never doubted my own strength and beauty, that sense of self-belief that you gave everything to instill in me.

As I wrestle now with my own marriage, and my own ideas of what it is to be a parent, I think again of you and your strength, your beauty, your consideration for others, your sense of duty to your children. We owe everything to you, our very lives.

I have come through troubled times before, in my cancer. I did now know it then, but I know now that it was your presence, your strength inside me that helped me to get through it.

Daniela nursed me, gave me space and consideration when I needed it, she was a rock. But if you do not have self-belief, faith in life itself, then overcoming any obstacle seems pointless.

And now that I am on my own journey of self-discovery - where I feel more alive than I have done for years - I thank the heavens that you exist, that you nurtured me as you did, that you gave me such a gift of love and consideration. 

You have had difficulty sometimes finding inner peace yourself, I know that. You gave so much to us that sometimes you found it difficult to value yourself as you are, as I see you, as a goddess. 
I know from Daniela, I cannot give another self-belief, faith in the beauty of the world if they do not see it for themselves. That I can see it, and do see it every day, is entirely thanks to you. It is your great gift to me. I will go on spreading good energy, giving to everyone I meet for as long as I am able. Though in truth it is not me who is giving, it is your love that is being given, through me.

So Mum, I want to tell you how much I love you, and always will. You are my universe, and you have enabled me to create my own. Thank you from the bottom of my heart and from the top of my everything.

Jonathan

There are different types of love, today I can see that. Love for a deity, and love for a mother, I see now that they are the same. When you pray to them, even when you do not, the strength that enables you to make a decision that you will not regret later comes from this strength. I feel so sorry for those who have neither the love of a mother, nor faith. What can they then use to arm themselves against negativity all around them? How do they keep their faith when all around them are losing theirs? How do they stay steadfast, centred, loving when life conspires to make this next to impossible? It is next to impossible, but never actually impossible.

Love for another, a sibling, a friend, comes close to this, but is not as pure. The least pure of all is the love towards another, a partner. This is the love that rebounds on you, that is accompanied by insecurity, the pain of not knowing, the complications of how it sometimes contradicts their own love relationships. They can fall in love with another partner, they can be confused by previous loves, by the promise of future loves. And if they do not have that love of a mother, or of a deity to fall back on, they literally cannot know which way is up, and which is down. This primordial love is your centre of balance, of harmony, and it provides answers when there are none.

The last type of love, the type of love which is a product of all those above, is the love of self. In mantra practice, I can feel warmth, light, sunshine. Today, as I entered the puja room to practice the Bala Mantra, the light went off. I moved to another position by the window and started my practice. At the very moment when I finished the 108 recitations of the Bala Mantra, the light came back on. At that very instant, the exact same moment. It may be superstition, it may by coincidence, but I feel that it cannot be. At that moment, I was feeling warmth, sunshine, bliss from my practice. It was connected to the bliss that I felt in the aftermath of the singing, but more benevolent. It was an absence of fear. I understood at that moment that I have faith in myself to make the right decision, that whatever decision I make, I will be able to live with, that I will not be rash, but I will be honest and authentic in and of myself. I demand that only, nothing more. The most important thing is not to have regrets, and I know now that whatever I decide, I will be able to grow and flourish afterwards too.

Last night Bogdan came around. He gave me the opposite perspective to others, he alone was not swayed by my arguments of happiness. That is bullshit, he said, happiness is just your ego. You must be happy in and of yourself. What is it that you do not have? Look at me, I have no money, I have been betrayed by the only love of my life, and yet I am happy. She came back to me after she had cheated on me, after she had betrayed me, and I told her to leave. She is ill in the head, I know that I cannot trust her again. She has betrayed me once, once is too much. I want to go back to Russia, he said, to be with my friends. You need to heal, I told him, after your trauma. Who does not? 

And now the thought occurs to me - perhaps Daniela should have the space to have the experience that I have had. To fall in love - maybe - with another, to have time and space away from Alma to think about her life, her priorities, to prioritise herself. I will suggest to her that Alma live with me, and me alone, and that she go somewhere to be by herself for some time. Dora and I will look after Alma, and be with her, and read her stories. I wonder if she would agree. I cannot think that she would. But she should. For one month, alone, to consider what it is that she wants.

I know what I want. Selfishly, I want to be happy, maybe with another. Unselfishly, I want to help Alma to grow strong, to be everything that she can be, to be a rock to others in her own life as my mother was to me, and as I hope to be to her.

Is Daniela willing to sacrifice her own life for that of Alma, as my mother did for me? I doubt it, she does not have the self-love, the awareness to make that sacrifice and not doubt it every day. She must love herself, and I must help her to do that. It is not a question of marriage counselling, or marriage guidance, it is a question of time and space to understand what is important to her. Daniela keeps herself busy so that she does not have to face up to these questions. She is so afraid of them that she fills her time with Alma. She complains about this, but I am sure that when I suggest to her to take the time back, she will refuse. Freedom of time is a dream for her, but one that perhaps she would prefer to keep as a dream, and never to realise. The truth can be too daunting to face head on for some people. I wish that she find the strength to face it, and it is my job to do absolutely everything I can to help her. Only when I have done everything in my power, and she is still not happy, will I be able to live with any other decision. I will be able to say - I did my best. So far, I have not. I must give more, lots more, because I know that I can. If I can, I must, as my mother did for me.

Alma called me just now to tell me that she is coming home today. I literally can't wait to see her. It reminds me that there is one other type of pure love, the love of a parent for a child. It is a difficult love - you feel fully responsible for their behaviour, it is a love that has blame and reward attached. When she does or says beautiful things, you feel an affirmation of your own ego, when the opposite happens, you feel disgusted, confused, perhaps that even she is not your child. But she is ours, and her behaviour is my behaviour. We tell her how to navigate the world, and she navigates it according to our compass. She is born with her own character, which is both like ours and not, but she is her own person. She has her own honesty, her own authenticity, she has no time for lies, although I am afraid that we are teaching her how to lie, that she must pretend to be pleased to see someone when she is not, she must feign to be happy to be touched by strangers when she is not in the mood, she must hide her annoyance with social practices that we consider 'etiquette' but that she sees through as pathetic, meaningless, fake.

Who am I now to prioritise one of these loves over another? How is it possible for me to seek my own happiness with a partner if it means spoiling another of my loves? Love is a river, running down through the generations. The more love my mother gave me, the more love I must give Alma, and the more love she will be able to give in her time.

Bogdan said something very true yesterday. Those who have been loved in their childhood, he said, go through life looking to give that love to others. Those have not, go through life looking to take it from others. This is beautiful, and very true.

I am so grateful for this time that I have had, for these experiences that have come my way, for the confusion that I have felt, and for the clarity that has emerged. I know now that I must continue with my own practice, and I must show generosity to Daniela to overcome her weakness. That is my responsibility to my daughter, to Daniela, to my mother, to myself. To love without ego, that is what I must strive for, for my entire life. I have been blessed with this strength, now I must give it unconditionally to others who are not so fortunate.




