# PF general meeting notes 7th November 2016 , 915 am, PF   
  
*Present:    
F - Fabien, B - Bubesh, Jn - Jonathan, Azh - Azhagappan, N - Nikki, A - Arul, R - Ram, E - Eric, An - Anand, Ana - Anais, L - Lourdes, P - Parvathi, Sn - Sneh, Dna - Daniela, Dan - Daniel, Va - Vanitha  

Apologies:  
*  


## WEEKLY PLAN:
M 14 - Meeting, Herbs for Health (SLI)
T 15 - Nadukuppam, Eco Club Students visit Nadukuppam Forest
W 16 - Nadukuppam (SLI - Herbs for Health) - Lunch
T 17 - Ethan arrives, Pavitra - Toyota visit, SLI bring Sri Lanka group to PF
F 18 - Pavitra - Toyota visit
S 19 - Nadukuppam, Pudukuppam Students Organic training in NF

M 21 - SLI - Nursery training (3 days) starts, led by Aramugan/Kesavan/Joss/Lourdes
-----

## Meeting Minutes  
E: Over three years of contact with Toyota. They are making big eco-park, want our inputs for artworks, plantation, herbal outlets. Thurs and Friday they are arriving - exact calendar Joss will take a call.  

Raman: I am coordinating next week nursery programme for SLI.  

Nikki: Lot of GEN ongoing work. Van is painted and fixed. Roof to be decorated (design ongoing), to be painted this week.  

L: Bubesh completed his PhD.  

Bubesh hands out sweets.  

N: Introduces Karthik, managing EDE team, staying in Pitchandikulam.  

Ana: We are preparing rooms, moving around things in rooms, so if you have things please move them. We will use this room as art/reading room in the EDE.  

P: Planning to do a session next week for herbal session in the Herbal Workshop room.  

L: Local school in Kt Rd, Edayanchavady coming here on Weds or Fri.  

A: Kitchen completed by tomorrow without painting. Garage yesterday did the concrete. Will be finished by end of month.  

L: EDE Kitchen team.   

Sn: I was in Udaipur in this meeting with groups. It was to organise the Adivasi land rites national movement, lobby at national level for Forest Rights Act. Also valid for people here - community forest rights.  

E: They have rights but it is not being enforced.  

Sn: TN is holding back. Forest Dept keeps allocating useage change - dams, mining, etc. It was a good meeting, and we were stuck without money thanks to the 500/1000 rupee change.  

Anand: This week I can't give cash out, only small amounts for vehicles etc. I spoke to the bank, they say first they will sort out cash, and there are currently no online transfers also. I gave them so cheques that they are keeping in the drawer.  

L: When Joss comes back - tomorrow night - we will have another mtg, probably on Weds.  

Ana: Treehouse pooja day after tomorrow or day after. I'll look consult a calendar.   

L: We did a programme which Jonathan asked for, Aatichudi, an alphabetical ecological manifesto for Pitch. Describes Aveyar, holding small stick with saree. Two words. We did it with the kids, and next week we can finish it to do it with the kids.   

N: We will write these in the van. Who has nice tamil handwriting for the van?  
L: Yes I will.  

N: 7 people staying in Garage room, by the 2nd they will need to move in.  

A: Toilet also painted already.  

