---
layout: music
year: 1999-2007
title: "Oi Va Voi"
description: "A groundbreaking pop-world crossover act"
image: "OiVaVoi_15.jpg"
category: "music"
area: band
label: Outcaste / V2
publisher: Outcaste / EMI
artist: [Oi Va Voi]
tags: [Oi Va Voi, world, klezmer, political, pop]
people: [Mike Spencer / Bacon & Quarmby - production, Moshikop / Andy Coules - sound/mixing, Nik Ammar - guitar, Josh Breslaw - drums, Steve Levi - clarinet, Leo Bryant - bass, Sophie Solomon / Anna Phoebe - violin, KT Tunstall / Alice McLaughlin / Bridgette Amofah - vocals]
video: h2572hLy7AA
videotext: "At this show the crowd even sang me Happy Birthday. Happy Days."
---

<span class="newthought">I founded, </span>wrote for and led a band for 7 years. On stage, I sang and played trumpet. With the band I made three records: people seemed to like us, and we played some decent shows. We were signed to Outcaste/EMI, and then Virgin/V2. I was lucky enough to work at length with some outrageously talented people, like KT Tunstall, Mike Spencer, Paul Epworth, Maurice El Medioni.

It was a longstanding labour of love, my formative musical experience: undertaken at a time when I was looking deeply into my roots and identity, and found a community of musicians and voyagers to share it with.

{% include sideimage img="1a.jpg" text="Receiving an Edison Award onstage, Paradiso, Amsterdam, 2004" %}

I started the band at University, having fallen in love with a Hungarian folk dancer. Having grown up on a diet of hip-hop, soul and jazz, hearing folk music for the first time was a revelation. My girlfriend took me to a táncház, a traditional Hungarian folk ceilidh. The musicians were on stage playing as we arrived - a violin, two violas and a three-stringed double bass. As we stood in line to check in our coats, I started to nod my head unconsciously. I looked up and saw that everyone in the queue was doing the same. It was just like waiting in line in a club - the music filters through the door past the bouncer, and everyone on the pavement is bobbing in anticipation.

A light bulb went off. This was pure dance music, just like Twice As Nice and Subterranea, the clubs I went to in London. Inside, it looked like a barndance, but the music was even more like the clubs I knew. Instead of drums and bass, there was a double bass and two violas, but the way they played - in hypnotic, repeated phrases with the violin singing a melody on top - allowed the dancers to almost ignore the music, and just do their thing.

I came out of that experience buzzing, and grabbed every recording of Hungarian folk music I could

<!-- soundcloud: 158696711 -->

<h3>Press</h3>

<blockquote>
	<p></p> 

<footer></footer>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>
	<p></p> 

<footer></footer>
</blockquote>
     