---
layout: post
year: 2015
title: "Inner Melodies"
description: "What happens when you sing a single note"
image: ""
category: "blog"
location: [India]
topic: [harmonics, sound]
tags: [sufi, sound, India, meditation]
---
When I first start to sing in the morning, often my voice is croaky, unresponsive, and I shrink at the thought of others in their beds overhearing these first notes clamber out of my throat (today it was 7am on a Sunday after all). 

I read in a Sufi book <span class='marginnote'>Music and Mysticism, by Hazrat Inayat Khan</span> that a wise man will learn more with dwelling on a single note than he will with a thousand.

Sufi practice includes singing a single note for five to six hours a day. 

There is a looped tanpura playing from my laptop, the same tone every day, G#. Something about it is not sitting today. Normally of course there would be a tanpura in my hands, and I would tune it to the surroundings, to myself, to whatever I feel like that day. 
I turn off the laptop, and listen to the gorgeous tapestry around me, trying out several pitches. It takes me a while to find one that seems to fit. When I do, I don't feel like leaving it, I feel like playing with it, enjoying it.

The more I sit on it, the more I like it, the more it grows.
First there is my voice, weak at the beginning, now getting stronger and firmer all the time, rich, projecting. I practice sounds, vowels, patterns that I have picked up from somewhere, possibly originally from some sacred practice I guess: Hum-A, Hung-A, Ung-Ee.

With each repetition, I feel myself opening. I feel powerful, as if my voice is my force, and it is filling the air, one with the birds and the wind. 

Then there is the music. As I hum, with power, eyes closed, I start to hear melodies. Beautiful melodies that sound like nothing I have ever written or heard. They are harmonics from my tongue. With no effort, my tongue is producing them. Eyes closed, that are delicious, addictive. If I try consciously to reproduce them, they go away, or seem forced.

Only when I am truly relaxed, they come back and start to sing again.  And how they sing!

A broad smile fills my mind, and I feel sringara, excitement and peace at the same time.

I will practice sitting on one note again tomorrow.



