On belief and opinion, or My Date with a Nazi



I am here in India to experience new things. Tonight I experienced something totally new. All new experiences are positive, they teach you about yourself and your understanding of the world in the way that old experiences never can. And so it was tonight. An extreme experience - uncomfortable, tense, frightening even. Tonight I had my first meeting with a conspiracy theorist. It began simply - I met a musician who lives out in a village nearby with his Indian girlfriend. We met at a concert, chatted about music, he told me of his experiences in India. One comment struck me as disturbing. He said: “the world has invented three types of commercial activity: an exchange for profit, theft, and cheating. Indians have invented a fourth - all three of them in one.” I smiled nervously, as you do in awkward social situations, thinking to myself that I should leave. But a month later I see him in a cafe, and find myself in his house borrowing a book from him. And then the conversation starts.

He explained to me that all historical events are fake, organised by the financial and commercial elite: starting with the French Revolution, to 9/11 and the Charlie Hebdo shootings. 9/11 I'd heard of, but the other two were news to me. 

He showed me material on his hard drive, a well stocked archive of text and videos. He had been researching the topic for five years. Freshest in the collection were two videos showing that the Charlie Hebdo shooting was a fake, as was the killing in the French kosher supermarket: staged by the French secret services under order from the powers that be. Why? In order to help to declare war against Islam and take the 'clash of civilisations' theory to a point of no return, so that neo-liberal hegemony can bolster Israel to secure the elite's bulwark in the Middle East. The media that created the stories are neo-liberal tools of oppression, creating fake news in fake democracies. All elections are fake, all political parties, especially anti-establishment ones like Le Front Nation are stooges paid off to frighten the voters, or empty vehicles with no power like Syriza and Podemos that can be safely promoted in order to bring about their failure and browbeat a dejected public into accepting the status quo.

From there, it was a short step to who is responsible - the Jews naturally (he informed me that the Jews are the only religion in the world who make a commercial contract with their God, and the Talmud or Torah - he couldn't remember which - is the only holy text to mention profit and money lending). He kindly added that they are not the only ones in this elite, but rather an important contributing factor.  They love money, and are rich. All stereotypes are 50% true - so what if Jews loved money? What was there to be afraid of or embarrassed about? All wars are generated by this financial elite in order to open new markets; as was feminism, which is nothing more than an attempt to double the workforce and therefore drive down salaries.

From then on, it followed that the Holocaust was both an exaggeration and a possible myth, as the concentration camps were work camps with swimming pools where babies were delivered by caeserean section, and people died of typhoid. The proof was that is no mention of killing Jews in Mein Kampf or in any German historical record of the time, or of Zyklon B.

Where do you start? Firstly, there is a physical reaction - nausea, racing heart, utter disbelief. Then comes the seductive drive of logic - I'll pick him apart using rational query. And finally, although I tried hard to keep it under control, disgust and pity. I told him I envied him his simple world view where the world could be explained by a single narrative. I asked him if he minded that a Nazi might agree with 90% of what he said. I asked him if he ever wondered that, just as we are being fed information by the commercial neo-liberal media, so was he, and nothing more than a pawn as equally duped as we were.

He replied that of course he is no racist or anti-semite: rather, he is a humanist, and he is driven to these discoveries by his sadness at all the needless misery in the world. 

I sat with him for nigh on two hours, failing miserably to shed any light on his mind, but succeeding only in one thing: cementing my own understanding of why I think we are all victims of the same trap as he is.

We all consider ourselves free-thinkers, sceptical of being shepherded like sheep, and hold dear to our opinions, which we believe we have come to independently as individuals. This man considered himself the very embodiment of a free thinker, although not a single thing that he said was the product of his own lived experience. Every single quote, every single conspiracy, every single idea was created by someone else to be regurgitated by him. He wove it together into a unified narrative all by himself, believing that he had uncovered a hidden truth, that there is a truth to uncover. 

My main conclusion from this experience is that the only opinions worth having are those based on your own personal experiences, and that the only intelligent response to non-lived, or second hand information, is to refuse to participate in its polarisation outright. 

I am not advocating either inaction or refuting core moral and ethical principles - they form the core of how I seek to behave with those around me, and by extension, any course of action I take with another person is predicated on what resonates most with my core beliefs.

But I believe that to be a historian or journalist is to be an entertainer, a creator of narratives, and therefore I insist on being frugal with my opinions. Opinions are the polarising battles that separate us from each other, most frequently based on hearsay alone. By participating in these battles, we divide ourselves from each other needlessly, compounding fear and isolation, filling our minds with learned prejudice. When we do decide to have an opinion, let us make sure it is ours and ours alone - based on something we have witnessed, in person, with our own eyes and ears. Opinions masquerading as emotional narratives about things that we know little - these are the tools with which we kill each other, and worse, dehumanise each other. 

So let us refuse to preface received information with the feel-good words "in my opinion" and instead declare without shame on almost every subject: "I just don't have an opinion at all." Especially if the subject is newsworthy. Because in truth, it's unlikely to be our opinion at all.