On Strength and Weakness
I have been living with a secret, something that very few people around me know. Noone in my working environment knows about it, and I hide it too from those closest to me.

I have a medical condition. To be precise, Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a type of lymph cancer. I call it a condition, as it can recur at any time. To date, I have had cancer treatment twice - once radiotherapy, once chemotherapy, and two related scares (a biopsy of a lump that turned out to be benign). Once every few months I go to see a specialist who feels my neck and effectively reads my future.

I’m writing this because it has caused me a great deal of stress that is in hindsight unnecessary. The cause of this stress is not the cancer itself - I have good doctors at the UCH Cancer Centre and I know that if it does recur, it will be caught early and can be treated. The cause of the stress is the secrecy. I don’t want people around me to think of me as being ill, or weak. And so it is easier to live a double life - strong and healthy in public, and literally scared to death in private. It doesn’t just extend to my working life, but to my family too. I avoid talking about it with them, with anyone. And this leaves me with an extreme tension and anxiety that I don’t want, and don’t need to face any more.

How many of us are there in a similar position - hiding illness from our friends and colleagues because we don’t want to appear weak, to be judged as being ‘ill’? I’ll bet the more senior we are, the more responsibility we have, the more anxious we are to keep these two parts of our life, the ‘strong’ and the ‘weak’, as far away from each other as humanly possible. 

This post is my way of saying enough is enough. What if we’ve got it all wrong? Maybe, just maybe, our secret is not a sign that we are weak, but that we are strong. We deal with all the usual pressures and uncertainties of work and family, all on a foundation of deep uncertainty - and noone even knows about it. Maybe the fact that we are experienced in dealing with the deepest instability of all - about our own bodies - makes us more resilient and better able to deal with change. Maybe the fact that our illness has forced us to think about our priorities in life so intensely, we understand ourselves better. Maybe we're not the weakest link, but the strongest one.

So I say - let us all come out. Let us tell the world about our secret. If we can be open - to our work colleagues, our friends, our families - we can be honest to ourselves. It means we won’t have to hide any more. And if any of them want to judge us as weak, more fool them. Everyone knows that what doesn’t kill you, makes you stronger. And that might just make us the strongest of all.