Things We Can Learn From Babies
Babies like shiny things. As do we. But they get bored quickly. As do we. Friends buy my daughter toys - a way to show parents that they feel affection for us, I suppose - but she doesn't care. For all our baby has brightly coloured flashing bits of Chinese tat to play with, she likes to be outside. She likes to see people. Human interaction is the only thing that can stop her from being bored.  When we're home alone with her, the plastic toys only get us so far before she gets itchy, irritated that we're not doing something more interesting.

The toys know this. They talk to her incessantly, inanimate chatterboxes. Now she is playing with an oversized plastic phone with lurid buttons. It flashes and shouts "Let's call Mummy!" at her with all the authority of a bored voiceover artist. As I type this, Skype on my laptop is making the same noises. She looks up, interested that we have the same toys.  We both have Chinese-made plastic devices with funny voices coming out of them. They both satisfy our curiosity, for a while. Mine says "MacBook", hers says "SingalongaBaby". But they are both stopping us from having real interaction with people. This discrepancy about people and machines was at its most striking last night on the train home. New Years Eve, people dressed up, laughing out loud, excited. Almost everyone used it as an excuse to talk to their neighbours. Naturally they played with their toys at the same time: a phone in one hand, a beer in the other. But they spoke to each other, flirted, just plain interacted. Tomorrow night they'll be exclusively back on the toys, and the same every night on every train journey in the country til next New Year's Eve.

Our baby is still strong enough to choose her toys, whereas we are chosen by ours. I no longer have the strength to swap my Chinese-made toy - which I play with for hours every day - for a plastic bottle lid. But she does. And I'd like to. Deep down I know that my toy encourages me to do things that have little or no value beyond killing time. Before my toy chose me, I used to skim-read exclusively in dentists' waiting rooms. Now my toy feeds me the dental waiting room reading list on a daily basis. I know that I dont like going to the dentist's, even less the magazines in his waiting room. So my New Year's Resolution is simple: to be outside more, with people. To be more like our baby. And when it's raining - to spend more time with plastic bottle lids.